-: Welcome back, in this lecture,
we are going to understand about YAML basics.
To write Kubernetes declarative manifest,
we definitely need a little bit of knowledge on YAML.
So we are going to look into a few YAML basics
which are required for our Kubernetes manifests.
So let's go ahead and then understand what is YAML
on a high level, and then move on and then implement few
sample things required to understand better about YAML.
So YAML is not a markup language.
So YAML is used to store information about different things.
So we can use YAML to define key-value pairs,
like variables, lists, and then objects.
So YAML is very similar to JSON,
which is nothing but JavaScript Object Notation.
YAML primarily focuses on readability,
and then user-friendliness.
So YAML is designed to be clean and easy to read.
So we can define YAML files with two different extensions,
.yml or .yaml, anything would work for us, okay?
So the next thing is, what are the core topics
we are going to cover here, okay?
So YAML comments, and then key-value pairs,
dictionary or map, arrays or lists,
spaces, and then document separator.
So let's go ahead and then implement them now.
So we'll go back to our GitHub repo,
and we are in Kubernetes Fundamentals GitHub repo,
and we are going inside "06 YAML Basics."
So we are going to start with comments,
and then key-value pairs.
So in YAML, so to define comments, you are going to
provide it with hash, and key-value pairs,
you can see, name, colon, space, and then value.
So key, colon, space, and then value.
Space after colon is mandatory to differentiate
key and then value.
So let's go ahead and then define this on YAML now, right?
So here, in our YAML Basics, we'll simply say,
sampleFile.yml.
So I try to use .yml instead of .yaml
in all our notifications, so both are same.
So we are going to define a simple key-value pairs, okay?
So now we are going to say name is equal to Kalia,
and age is equal to 23, and city is equal to Hyderabad.
Okay, so everywhere, if you see here, space.
So this space is mandatory for any of these things, okay?
So to differentiate key and then value,
so we need to have this space.
So if you say, if you remove the space,
you can see that the notation looks different, right?
So have the space, and it looks as a key-value pair.
And now we are going to use Visual Studio Code for that,
and whatever you want.
You can just go here, and then say VS Code, Download,
and then you'll be able to download the
Microsoft Visual Studio Code.
And next is dictionary, or map.
So what is the dictionary, or a map?
So set of properties grouped together after an item
is called dictionary, or map, okay?
So now if you see here this name, age and then city
are grouped under a property, or item, named Person.
So now Person item has these properties.
So now this Person is a dictionary object, okay?
So now let's define that now.
So we are going to say Parson, and like this,
so if you define like this,
so these are not grouped under Person.
If you see this one, so this is one more key-value pair,
like it looks, so it is wrong.
So now we need to select all these things, and then say Tab.
So we need to have equal amount of spaces here.
And now if you see this is the parent,
and these look as child.
And now under Person, we have these properties,
name, age and then city.
So now this is dictionary, okay?
So now the next thing here is equal amount of blank spaces
required for all the items under a dictionary.
So we have equal amount of spaces.
So one tip here is whatever you select here, okay?
So if you say Enter, directly it will come here
in Visual Studio Code, and then if you want to
write something else, you can write school, okay?
ABC School something, if you want to write, you can write.
So directly it will come under the same indentation
level in VS Code, okay?
And another important thing here is whenever
you are writing YAML in VS Code, so if you want to
give these indentations, you can say Tab,
and then it gives us two spaces for us.
So instead of typing two times Space, so you can even
say Tab, Tab, Tab, wherever you want to write.
So that is one way of doing it.
So now we completed the dictionary and then map.
So let's understand about arrays, or lists, okay?
So dash indicates an element of an array.
So I have something called for this Person here,
some Hobbies, and listed those hobbies, okay.
So listing means those are lists, right?
So now we'll go here, and immediately under Hobbies, right?
So I'm going to say Tab, and I'm going to say,
cooking and cycling.
So like this, okay?
So like this, you can write those things.
Now, one more means like lists, you can define this way,
or you can define the list in the other way,
which is Hobbies, and then square brackets,
and you can say, cooking, comma, cycling.
So in any way, you can write the list.
So this one, we are not going to use an entire Kubernetes
manifest, we are going to use list this way.
So now the next thing is multiple lists.
So how you are going to define multiple lists, right?
So let's example, you have friends, okay?
And you want to define your list of friends, okay?
So I can say name of my friend is Friend1,
and his age is 23.
And I have one more friend, okay,
whose name is Friend2, and whose age is 22.
And I have one more, so you can, like this,
you can keep writing the lists, okay?
So multiple lists, okay, multiple lists.
So that's about multiple lists,
whatever we are going to define.
So now you can consider this as one document,
this Person document as one document.
So what next, okay?
So you want to write one more document
in the sample file, okay?
So in the sampleFile.yml, I need to write one more document.
I really don't want to create one more file here,
saying sample2.yml, and then I really don't want
to write it here, I want to write everything
in a single file.
So for that, what I can do, right?
So there will be something called document separator
in YAML, so I can save this one,
and then now I can write one more file here, okay?
So I can copy my sample part template,
and then paste it here.
Now if you see, so this is a separate document of YAML,
and this is separate document,
and then it is separated using, okay, document separator,
right, YAML document separator.
That's the thing.
So if you see here this part template and all these things.
We'll move on with the next steps of live template writing.
And there also you'll understand in detail,
but you can see here, you can define, you can come from top.
So API version is a string, and then we have V1 value,
and then kind is part, and it's a string,
and metadata is a dictionary,
and you have name and then labels.
Under labels, you can define multiple values here, okay?
So tier is a call to front end, et cetera.
So now this is one more dictionary, okay?
And under root element Spec, you have Containers,
and in Containers, you can define multiple things, okay?
So here it is one more time, you can save this
as list, and under Containers, this is one container.
If you want to define one more container,
so you can say name and container is myApp2,
and then you can write one more image here, right?
So I can say, where is this?
So I can even write here, image is a call to
ABC-slash-something, stack simplify slash Kubernetes 2.0.0.
And if you want to define ports one more time,
for this respect to container,
then you can even define those things, okay?
And then you can define container port,
and all the information you can define.
So like this, you can keep writing whatever you want
in the format it is required in YAML.
So the core things involve around the YAML is comments,
key-value pairs, dictionary or map, array lists,
spaces, and then document separator.
These things will be sufficient
for writing our Kubernetes manifests.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye, thank you.